I want to make a recipe for you called
Chi Ladas I made that name up because
really their lentil rissoles and I
thought that sounded a bit dull and
these are so delicious I thought they
needed a Pasha name so I've called them
geladas and you start off for your
Chile's with one pound of whole lentils
remember you don't need to soak them and
then you cook them in water for about 40
to 50 minutes and I've got some cooked
here now if you were serving them in a
salad you would cook them for less time
than that
you would only cook them for about half
an hour to 35 minutes so that you still
had whole lentils but because I want to
make lentil rissoles orchha Ladas I've
cooked them longer and they've absorbed
all the water and they've gone to a nice
sort of mashed potato texture well
that's the cooked lentils now I want to
add some other ingredients and in my
frying pan here I've got a carrot which
has been finely chopped an onion finely
chopped and a green pepper finely
chopped and these are being just
softened and cooked for about ten
minutes and they go in along with the
lentils and then I'm just going to give
that a good stir now remember the same
rule applies no salt in until afterwards
so cook the lentils just in plain water
now stir in those vegetables don't cook
the vegetables too much either because
it's nice if they have a sort of crunchy
texture to them so there we have the
basic mixture now I'm going to add I'm
going to add some nice flavorings that
I've got lined up here first of all you
want a teaspoon full of cayenne pepper
this is rather a large teaspoon I've got
here I think it's a bit too large so I'm
just going to use the equivalent of a
small level teaspoon full of cayenne
pepper and this will make it fairly
zesty if you don't like things like that
then you can just cut the cayenne pepper
down now I'm going to add half a
teaspoon of ground
mase which we spoke about on an earlier
program I'm going to add a level
teaspoon of dried mixed herbs these are
dried mixed herbs but obviously if
you're making these in the summer months
then you can use chopped fresh herbs
which would be even nicer now four
tablespoons of tomato puree and then
another good mixing and then taste it
and season it exactly to how you like it
this is one pound of lentils and it's
amazing it's going to make enough for
eight people and they vary the cost of
them varies between 24 pence a pound and
40 depending on where you buy them but
to serve eight people with a meal a
protein that cheaply is really quite
something now you need to divide this
into 24 portions you take a portion and
if you're making these at home and are
not in such a hurry as I am then it's
best to let the mixture cool first and
then it'll be much much easier to handle
but anyway that's not doing too badly
then after you've toned your 24 little
cakes you then dip them first in beaten
egg and then straight into bread crumbs
or if you like you can just roll them in
whole wheat flour you don't have to do
the egg and bread crumbing it's up to
you then you just shape that make it
into a little lentil cutlet shailaja
shape and I'm only going to do one
you've got to do 24 of those because
it'll serve 8 people then all they're
going to need after that is some shallow
frying and use something like ground nut
oil and give them about 2 or 3 minutes
on each side till they're a nice golden
brown color